
THE

NURSERY


_A Monthly Magazine_


FOR YOUNGEST READERS.


VOLUME XXII.--No. 5.


          BOSTON:
          JOHN L. SHOREY, No. 36 BROMFIELD STREET,
          1877.




          Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1877, by
          JOHN L. SHOREY,
          In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.


          FRANKLIN PRESS:
          RAND, AVERY, AND COMPANY,
          117 FRANKLIN STREET,
          BOSTON.




[Illustration: Contents.]


IN PROSE.

                                                PAGE
  Sarah's Picture                                131
  Kitty Bell                                     134
  A clever Fox                                   136
  How Ponto got his Dinner                       138
  The Pet Pigeon                                 141
  Eighth Lesson in Astronomy                     143
  Drawing-Lesson                                 145
  The Farm                                       146
  The Drawing-Master                             148
  Learning to iron                               151
  Birdie and Baby                                153
  Boys and Rabbits                               156
  Tobacco and Egg                                158


IN VERSE.

                                                PAGE
  Steering for Home                              129
  Three naughty Pigs                             133
  The Butterfly and the Grasshopper              139
  Little Mosquito                                150
  A naughty Baby                                 154
  The Apple Tree (_with music_)                  160

[Illustration: Birds]




[Illustration: STEERING FOR HOME.]




STEERING FOR HOME.


  [Illustration: B]LOW, thou bitter northern gale;
                   Heave, thou rolling, foaming sea;
                 Bend the mast and fill the sail,
                   Let the gallant ship go free!
                 Steady, lad! Be firm and steady!
                   On the compass fix your eye;
                 Ever watchful, ever ready,
                   Let the rain and spray go by!
                     We're steering for home.

                 Let the waves with angry thud
                   Shake the ship from stem to stern;
                 We can brave the flying scud,
                   It may go, it may return:
                 In the wind are cheerful voices,
                   In the waves a pleasant song,
                 And the sailor's heart rejoices
                   As the good ship bounds along.
                     We're steering for home.

                 Standing on the briny deck,
                   Beaten by the blinding spray,
                 Fearing neither storm nor wreck,
                   Let us keep our onward way.
                 Loving hearts for us are yearning,
                   Now in hope, and now in doubt,
                 Looking for our swift returning,
                   How they try to make us out!
                     We're steering for home.

                 Fainter blows the bitter gale,
                   And more peaceful grows the sea;
                 Now, boys, trim again the sail;
                   Land is looming on the lee!
                 See! the beacon-light is flashing,
                   Hark! those shouts are from the shore;
                 To the wharf home friends are dashing;
                   Now our hardest work is o'er.
                     Three cheers for our home!

                                                  TOM BOWLING.




SARAH'S PICTURE.


MY name is Sarah. I live in Bristol, Conn., and am not quite five years
old. I have taken "The Nursery" ever since I was two.

About three years ago a lady gave me a little trunk, and I have kept my
magazines in it ever since. Last winter, when snow was on the ground,
and I had to stay in the house a good deal, I used to get my trunk and
sit down on the floor by mamma, and look my "Nursery" through almost
every day. So mamma thought she would like to have my picture taken just
in that way.

Now I must introduce you to my dog Beauty, who sits by my side in the
picture. You see he is a Spitz; but do not be frightened: he will never
have hydrophobia. I cannot think of having him muzzled, for one of his
charms is the way he opens and shuts his mouth when he barks. Oh, no,
Beauty! I will never hurt your feelings by making you wear a muzzle.

My grandma gave me this dear dog a year ago last Christmas. He had two
beautiful red eyes then; now he has none. He had two long silky ears
then; now he has but one. He had four legs, and a bushy tail curled over
his back; now he has but two legs, and no tail. But I love him just as
well as ever.

[Illustration]

The dolly you see sitting up against the trunk is my daughter Nannie. I
have four other children.

Nellie is a fair-haired blonde, but is getting rather past her prime.
You know blondes fade young.

Rosa Grace once had lovely flaxen curls, and very rosy cheeks; but now
her curls are few and far between, her cheeks are faded, and her arms
and feet are out of order.

Next comes Florence, who has joints, and can sit up like a lady
anywhere. My papa brought her from San Francisco. She has yellow hair,
and is dressed in crimson silk.

My youngest is not yet named. She is quite small, has black hair and
eyes, and is rather old-fashioned looking. If you can think of a name
just right for her, I wish you would please let me know. It is so
perplexing to name so many children!

                                                SARAH H. BUCK.




THREE NAUGHTY PIGS.


          THREE naughty pigs,
            All in one pen,
          Drank up their milk
            Left by the men.

          Then all the three,
            Fast as they could,
          Dug their way out
            To find something good.

          Out in the garden
            A maiden fair
          Had set some flowers,
            Of beauty rare.

          Out in the garden
            A merry boy
          Had planted seeds,
            With childish joy.

          One naughty pig
            Ran to the bed;
          Soon lay the flowers
            Drooping and dead.

          Two naughty pigs
            Dug up the seeds,
          And left for the boy
            Not even weeds.

          Three naughty pigs
            Back in the pen,
          Never could do
            Such digging again.

          For in their noses
            Something would hurt
          Whenever they tried
            To dig in the dirt.

                                                      F. L. T.

[Illustration]




KITTY BELL.


ONCE there was a little girl named Alice, and she had an Uncle George
whom she loved very dearly. One day, as Alice was looking out of the
window, she saw her Uncle George coming into the yard with a covered
basket in his hand.

Alice ran to meet him, and, as she was kissing him in the hall, she
heard a faint sound in the basket, and exclaimed, "O Uncle George! what
have you brought me?"

"Look into the basket and see," said her uncle.

So Alice peeped in very carefully, and saw a little black kitten. The
little girl was delighted, and fairly danced around her uncle as she
said, "What a dear little kitten! Is it for me, Uncle George? Who sent
it to me? Did you bring it from your house?"

"Yes," said her uncle, "your Cousin Edith sent it to you; she thought
you would like it."

"Well," said Alice, "you must thank Edith a thousand times, and here is
a kiss for you for bringing it to me; and I'm sure the poor little thing
must be hungry: so I'll give it something to eat."

She carried the kitten into the kitchen, and soon got from the cook a
nice pan of milk. Her little brother Harry came running in to see the
new kitten eat its dinner, and with him came the old family cat, Mouser,
who rubbed and purred against Alice, as if he wanted her to pet him too.

The next thing was to find a name, "pretty, and not too common," Alice
said. While she was trying to think of one, she went up to her own
little room, and searched among her ribbons for a piece to tie around
the kitten's neck. She soon found one that was just the thing.

In one of her drawers she found a tiny bell that somebody had given
her, and thought it would be a good plan to hang that around kitty's
neck by the ribbon. Kitty made no objection to being thus decorated, and
a happy thought struck Alice; "Kitty Bell would be just the name for
her!" and Kitty Bell it was.

[Illustration]

Kitty grew very fast; and one morning, after she had got to be a
good-sized kitten, she came to Alice, and mewed quite piteously. Alice
gave her some milk; but Kitty Bell was not hungry, and mewed still more.
Alice could not think what was the matter.

At last Kitty Bell gave her head a shake, and put one paw up to the
ribbon on her neck, as if trying to pull it over her head. Alice untied
the ribbon, and away ran Kitty Bell quite out of sight. In a short time
she came back with a mouse in her mouth, which she laid at Alice's feet.

Do you see what had been the trouble? The bell had frightened the mice
away, so that Kitty Bell could not get near enough to catch them.

                                                            W.




A CLEVER FOX.


ON a summer day, a gentleman was lying under the shelter of some shrubs
on the banks of the River Tweed, when he saw a large brood of ducks,
which had been made to rise on the wing by the drifting of a fir-branch
among them. After circling in the air for a little time, they again
settled down on their feeding-ground.

There was a pause for two or three minutes, and then the same thing took
place again. A branch drifted down with the stream into the midst of the
ducks, and made them take to flight once more. But when they found that
the bough had drifted by, and done no harm, they flew down to the water
as before.

After four or five boughs had drifted by in this way, the ducks gave no
heed to them, and hardly tried to fly out of their way on the stream,
even when they were near to being touched.

[Illustration]

The gentleman who had been observing all this now watched for the cause
of the drifting of the boughs. At length he saw, higher up the bank of
the stream, a fox, which, having set the boughs adrift, was watching for
the moment when the ducks should cease to be startled by them.

This wise and clever fox at last seemed satisfied that the moment had
come. So what did he do but take a larger branch of spruce-fir than any
he had yet used, and, spreading himself down on it so as to be almost
hidden from sight, set it adrift as he had done the others!

The ducks, now having ceased to fear the boughs, hardly moved till the
fox was in the midst of them, when, making rapid snaps right and left,
he seized two fine young ducks as his prey, and floated forward in
triumph on his raft. The ducks flew off in fright, and did not come
back.

That fox must have had a fine dinner that day, I think. The gentleman
who saw the trick pitied the poor ducks, but could not help laughing at
the fox's cunning.

                                                UNCLE CHARLES.




HOW PONTO GOT HIS DINNER.


PONTO in his youth had been a very wise and active dog. Not only had he
been brave at watching, but he had been taught to carry packages and
notes for his master.

But, as he grew old and feeble, he gradually got out of the way of doing
such services, and spent his time mostly in sleeping, or in jogging
about, without care.

One day his mistress had told her husband, as he went to his business in
the morning, to send around the carriage at ten o'clock. This he forgot
to do; and when the hour came, and there was no carriage, the lady knew
it would be necessary to remind her husband of his promise.

But she had no one to send with a message. At last she chanced to
remember that Ponto used to go on such errands, and, writing a note, she
called him to her, and said,--

"Here, Ponto, take this note to your master."

Ponto took the note carefully in his mouth, but did not seem to know
what he was expected to do with it.

"Go, Ponto," she said; "take the note to your master."

He trotted on a little way, paused, turned and hesitated, and then
trotted a little farther. This he repeated several times, and at last,
started off at a good gait.

But wise old Ponto! Did he, after so much pondering, take the note to
his master? Not a bit of it! He went straight to the butcher's, and
presented the billet, wagging his tail at the same time, as much as to
say, "Here's an order for my dinner!"

The butcher, understanding the situation, rolled up a nice piece of meat
in a paper, gave it to Ponto, and then himself delivered the note to the
gentleman.

Ponto stalked home as proud as a king, laid the package at his
mistress's feet, and waited, with a delighted, expressive wag, for her
approval.

Of course she gave him all the meat, patted his faithful old head, and
called him "good Ponto."

The carriage came in good time; and Ponto does not know to this day but
what he did exactly as he was told.

                                                      C. D. B.




THE BUTTERFLY AND THE GRASSHOPPER.


          "PRETTY Butterfly, stay!
          Come down here and play,"
          A Grasshopper said,
          As he lifted his head.
          "Oh, no! and oh, no!
          Daddy Grasshopper, go!
          Once you weren't so polite,
          But said, 'Out of my sight,
          You base, ugly fright!'"
          "Oh, no! and oh, no!
          I never said so,"
          The Grasshopper cried:
          "I'd sooner have died
          Than been half so rude.
          You misunderstood."
          "Oh, no! I did not;
          'Twas near to this spot:
          The offence, while I live,
          I cannot forgive."
          "I pray you explain
          When and where such disdain,
          Such conduct improper,
          Was shown by this Hopper."
          "I then was a worm:
          'Tis a fact, I affirm,"
          The Butterfly said,
          With a toss of her head.
          "In my humble condition,
          Your bad disposition
          Made you spurn me as mean,
          And not fit to be seen.
          In my day of small things
          You dreamed not that wings
          Might one day be mine,--
          Wings handsome and fine,
          That help me soar up
          To the rose's full cup,
          And taste of each flower
          In garden and bower.
          This moral now take
          For your own better sake:
          Insult not the low;
          Some day they may grow
          To seem and to do
          Much better than you.
          Remember; and so,
          Daddy Grasshopper, go!"

                                                 EMILY CARTER.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




THE PET PIGEON.


WHEN I was about nine years old, my father and mother were living in a
Southern city; and, as I had been very ill for a long time, I was taken
from school, and permitted to do as I liked.

In one of my walks I met an old colored woman, who took quite a fancy to
me; and once, when I was sick at home, she came to see me, bringing as a
present a young pigeon. Its feathers were not grown enough to show its
color; but it proved to be brown and white.

I was very much grieved when my mother said that she could not have a
pigeon kept in the house; but my father persuaded her to indulge me till
I was able to go out again; and then my pet gave so little trouble that
nobody objected to him.

For the first two or three weeks, he was put at night in another room;
but I begged so hard that finally "Pidgy," as I called him, was allowed
to roost on top of the wardrobe in my bed-room.

The first time he saw me asleep, he seemed very much alarmed (so my
mother told me); but he settled down on my shoulder, and kept very quiet
till I awoke. This he always did after that morning, sometimes waiting
more than two hours. After amusing myself with him till it was time to
get up, I used to give him a large basin of water, into which he would
jump with great delight; and he would be making his toilet while I was
making mine.

For two or three months I kept his wings clipped, so that he could not
fly far. When I went out for a walk, I generally took him, either in my
arms or perched on my hand; and thus I and my pet became known all over
the neighborhood; and, when my little playmates invited me to visit
them, an invitation was always sent for "Lillie and her pigeon."

He followed me everywhere. If I was reading, he rested on my chair; if
playing on the piano, he would listen attentively: indeed he acquired
such a taste for music, that the only time he ever seemed willing to
leave me was to perch upon the foot of a gentleman who was singing very
finely.

I taught him a number of tricks, such as bringing me any thing that he
could carry, lying down very still till I told him to get up, and
running over the piano-keys to make music for himself.

During the two years that Pidgy and I enjoyed so much together, he never
fed from any hand but mine; and once, when I staid from home over night,
he would not eat at all, but pecked at my mother and sister so that they
were quite provoked with him. On my return, he flew to meet me with an
angry "coo," his feathers all ruffled up, as if trying to reprove me for
my neglect.

What finally became of my pet I never knew. I had him out on the porch,
one day, and, as I ran into the house for a few minutes, the door was
blown to, so that he could not follow me. A boy caught him up, and was
seen running away with his prize. Every effort was made to find him; but
I never saw my dear little pigeon again.

                                                   ANNE PAGE.




EIGHTH LESSON IN ASTRONOMY.


HOW shall I make such little folks understand that the sun and the stars
really stand still, when they seem to take a journey across the sky
every day? Perhaps the best way will be to make a little game of it. We
will explain it with boys.

I want a boy to represent the earth, and as many as can be found for sun
and stars: there is no danger of too many. Now, the fattest boy of all
must be the earth, and stand in the middle. We want him fat and round,
because the earth is as round as an orange. (We need not mind about the
size of the stars: they always look small, they are so far off.)

All the other boys must stand about him, and stand still. If they are
not satisfied with their places, they must not move; for they are fixed
stars. That is right. I can imagine you now just as you are, the fat
boy in the middle.

But _you_ must not stand still, fat boy, because I told the star-boys
not to move. You are the earth, and must do what the earth does. Don't
you know what it does? Oh! it does not run away. Come back, and I will
tell you what it does. It turns around just as a top spins. That is
right. Every time the earth turns, it makes a day and a night, by
turning towards the sun, and away from it again.

Don't turn so fast, my dear: you make the days and nights too short, and
you will be dizzy. Besides, you are turning the wrong way. The earth
turns from west to east, and you must remember you are the earth, and
not Charlie. Now go the other way, and more slowly, and keep your eyes
on the little boys who are the sun and stars.

We will suppose now that Frank is the sun. There he is just behind you.
He is shining now on the other side of the earth,--on your back. As you
turn around to the left, to the east, you begin to see him: he rises.
Now, as you turn more towards him, he seems to pass in front of you
towards the west, and pretty soon he is out of sight. He has set. So
much for the sun.

It is just the same if you look at the stars,--John, or Willie, or
James. As you turn round they all seem to be going round you. Now can't
you see, that, as the real earth turns around, the sun and stars about
it seem to you to rise and set, although they stand still, like Frank
and John and Willie and James.

A great many years ago, everybody supposed that the earth stood still,
and the sun and stars revolved around it; but a wise man named
Copernicus found out the mistake, and you had better call your game the
Copernican game.

                                                      M. E. R.

[Illustration: DRAWING-LESSON BY HARRISON WEIR.

VOL. XXII.--NO. 5.]




THE FARM.


VERY often in summer, after looking at the sky, and consulting the
barometer, my father would say to me, "Tell John to bring around the
horse and carryall, and we will all go out to the farm for the day."
John had the horse harnessed in a little while, mother sent out a great
basket of lunch, and in less than half an hour we were all off,--father,
mother, Dick, and I.

The farm was seven miles in the country, and the road leading to it was
a fine one. There were some hills, to be sure; but, whenever we came to
one, Dick and I used to climb out of the back-window, and hang on
behind, fancying that we lightened the load by not being inside. We
always enjoyed the ride very much.

At the farm there was a pretty cottage, where the tenant Mr. Clark
lived. We used to go in for a little while to see Mrs. Clark's babies,
and then we started off in search of adventures. What fun we did have!
Sometimes there would be great brush-heaps to burn, made of bushes and
branches of trees that had been cleared off from the land. They made
glorious bonfires.

There was an old yellow horse on the farm, that used to run the
wood-sawing machine. He was blind in one eye, but was the very gentlest
horse in the world. Dick and I would both get on him at the same time,
with only the halter to guide the horse, and go all over the farm.

Now and then, in shaking himself to get rid of the flies, Bob (the
horse) would shake us both off; but he always stopped at once when we
met with such an accident, so that we could get on again. Once, when we
were riding in this way, our horse stopped and refused to go on.

On looking to see what was the matter, we saw a large black snake in
the road just ahead of us. Being very reckless children, we slid off old
Bob, found some heavy sticks, and attacked the snake. First Dick struck
it, and, when it turned on him, I struck it; and so we pounded the
snake, turn and turn about, until it was killed.

[Illustration]

Another thing that we enjoyed very much was to go down to the creek that
ran through the farm, and put some ears of green corn in the water close
by the edge. We would then keep very still, and watch the corn, and, as
soon as we saw it move a little, we would give it a sudden slap out of
the water, and would almost always succeed in landing one or two
crawfish. We dug wells in the sand, which we would fill with water to
put our crawfish in. Sometimes we would have a dozen or more.

It would have been great fun to wade in the creek, but for one thing:
there were sand-leeches in the water, and they would get between our
toes, and bite so firmly into the flesh, that we could hardly get them
off.

A great event in the day was lunch, which we ate in picnic style on the
ground near the spring. We were always so hungry, that the simplest food
seemed delicious. I don't think we were ever very fond of bread and
butter anywhere else. By night we were very tired, and generally went
sound asleep on the way home.

                                                            A.




THE DRAWING-MASTER.


OUR Peter has opened a school for teaching drawing. At present he has
only two pupils; but he hopes to have more. They pay him two pins a
lesson; not a high price. I fear that Peter will not get rich very soon
at that rate.

[Illustration]

But he is no miser. He loves to do good, and to teach to others all the
good he knows. So he says to Tom and Harry, "This that I am drawing now
is what we call a horizontal line; and this is a curved line. Do you
know what a circle is, Tommy?"

"A circle is something round, isn't it?" replies Tommy.

"A circle," says Peter, drawing one on paper,--"a circle is a plane
figure, bounded by a single curved line called its circumference, every
part of which is equally distant from a point within it called the
centre."

"How can I remember all that stuff?" said Harry.

"Stuff! Do you call it _stuff_, sir?" said Peter, snapping him twice on
his closely-shorn head: "I will teach you not to call my definitions
_stuff_."

"What's a definition?" asked Tommy.

"A definition," said Peter, "is what I say to you when I tell you what a
thing means. If I ask you what _green_ is, and I tell you it's the color
of fresh summer grass, I give you a definition."

"School is out!" cried Harry. "Peter uses too many big words for us.
Hallo! there's Bob, the butcher's dog. I'm going to have a frolic with
him. Good-by, drawing-master!"

And so the school was broken up. "Never did I see boys behave so in
school-time," said the teacher.

I hope his pupils will be more attentive the next time he tries to teach
them how to draw.

                                                UNCLE CHARLES.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




LITTLE MOSQUITO.


          LITTLE Mosquito she sits on a sill,--
                Whee, whee, whee!
          And longs for the time when the people are still,
          That she, in the darkness, may stab them at will,--
                Whee, whee, whee!

          She whets up her dagger, and looks at the moon,--
                Whee, whee, whee!
          She says to herself, "I'll begin pretty soon
          To look for my victims, and sing them a tune,"--
                Whee, whee, whee!

          With a hum and a flutter, the way to prepare,--
                Whee, whee, whee!
          She rises and circles about in the air;
          Then settles herself with a great deal of care,--
                Whee, whee, whee!

          But one,--more awake than he seeks to appear,--
                Whee, whee, whee!
          Slaps little Mosquito, alight on his ear,
          And thus puts an end to her hopeful career,--
                Whee, whee, whee!

                                                      FLETA F.

[Illustration]




LEARNING TO IRON.


"NOW I've had my lesson in my 'Nursery Primer,'" said little
five-year-old Ellen, "and I want to learn to iron clothes."

"You are rather too young to be trusted with a flat-iron," said her
mother: "you might burn your fingers."

"I'll promise not to cry if I do," said Ellen. "Please let me go out and
help Patience iron, mamma."

Mamma at last gave her consent; and our picture of Ellen and Patience at
work at the ironing-board gives about as good likenesses of the two as
their reflections in a mirror could have given.

Ellen saw how Patience used her flat-iron, and then used hers in the
same way. She ironed a towel so well, that Patience praised her, and
said she could not have done it better herself.

But, as she was trying to put a flat-iron on the stove, Ellen burnt her
fingers so as to make her hop. She did not cry; for she remembered her
promise. Patience wet a cloth with cold water, and put it on the burn;
then she remembered that common brown soap was the best thing for a
burn, so she spread some soap on a cotton rag and put that on. Soon the
pain was gone, and Ellen ran and told her mother what had happened.

"You should not have tried to put the flat-iron on the stove," said her
mother. "If your clothes had caught fire, you might have had a bad
time."

"Would my dress have blazed up?" asked Ellen.

"I take care to dip your clothes in a weak solution of nitre before they
are worn; for that prevents their blazing, even if they should catch
fire," said mamma. "But you must not let that keep you from taking great
care."

"Next Tuesday may I take another lesson in ironing?" asked Ellen.

"Yes: if you say your lessons well during the week, you shall not only
learn to iron your clothes, but to wash them."

"That will be fun!" cried Ellen, clapping her hands, and quite
forgetting her burnt finger.

                                                DORA BURNSIDE.

[Illustration]




BIRDIE AND BABY.


BIRDIE is a canary-bird of pale gold color. Tiny as he is, he is quite
old compared with baby.

He was the sole pet of the house long before baby came into the world,
and he did as much as any bird could to fill a baby's place.

All the bright hours of the day, the door of his cage stood open. He
would fly to Aunt Minnie's shoulder while she sat sewing, and sing his
sweetest notes for her, or perch on her finger and take the bit of fresh
lettuce she brought for him from the table.

But after baby came--can you believe it?--this dear little birdie
behaved just like a spoiled child. He rolled himself up into a soft
yellow ball, and actually moped.

Not a note would he sing. Aunt Minnie could not coax him with green leaf
or seed. He would insist on making himself unhappy until baby was taken
out for an airing. Then he would burst into song again, and seem to feel
that he was in his old place,--the only treasure.

It was a long time before the poor little bird found out that Aunt
Minnie's heart was large enough to love him and her precious baby too.
But he is learning it now, and likes to have baby held up to his cage.

When Aunt Minnie lets him out into the room, he hops close by the baby;
and baby laughs, and stretches out his dimpled hands to catch him; but
he is wise enough to keep out of baby's way.

Don't you think it is nice for Aunt Minnie to have such treasures?

                                                      E. P. B.




A NAUGHTY BABY.


          HE'S a very naughty baby,
            For he will not shut his eyes
          And go to sleep, though I have done
            My best to hush his cries.
          I've trotted him, I've patted him,
            I've given him some food;
          But nothing that I do for him
            Will do him any good.

          I've sung a little lullaby,
            The one that mother sings;
          One that to weary little ones,
            Sweet slumber, always brings.
          I've scolded him, I've shaken him,
            All sorts of things I've tried;
          But the naughty, noisy baby-man
            Will not be pacified.

          He screams so loud he frightens me;
            He's getting worse and worse.
          I do wish mother would come home,
            Or get this boy a nurse.
          I'll toss him up, I'll tumble him,
            Play "creep-mouse," and "bo-peep,"
          Perhaps if I can make him laugh,
            The laugh will make him sleep.

          You naughty, naughty baby,
            How could you vex me so?
          One would not think you ever cried,
            To hear you laugh and crow!
          Hush, hush! He's getting tired out:
            Now very still I'll keep;
          There's nothing like a hearty romp,
            To put a child to sleep!

                                            JOSEPHINE POLLARD.




BOYS AND RABBITS.


HERE are two little boys and two little rabbits, all down on the ground.

The two boys are just the same age. They are twin brothers. Their names
are Paul and John.

The girl who stands near them is their sister Jane. She is quite a
little girl, as you see; but she is full three years older than the
boys: so she takes great care of them.

You would laugh to see Paul and John try to lift their rabbits by the
ears. The rabbits look most as large as the boys. But the boys are
growing larger and stronger every day.

[Illustration]

                                                      A. B. C.




TOBACCO AND EGG.


OUR house had a long back piazza, covered all over with grape-vines,
with steps going down to the yard.

[Illustration]

I discovered that by standing on my tip-toes, half way up the steps, I
could see into the next yard, where there grew such different flowers
from ours, and where there often came a little girl of six or
seven--about my own age--to gather bouquets.

She did not see me at first: so, for many days, I quietly watched the
stout little figure. During one of my observations, her mother called
her, and such a name as she had! The call, as I heard it, was "Tobacco,
my daughter!"

I felt deeply for the girl who was afflicted by such a name. I
determined to throw her the finest bunch of grapes on our vine by way of
consolation.

Some days after, when I was giving my large family of dolls an airing in
the garden, I saw a small face staring at me just over the top of the
fence. Being familiar with the position myself, I was not alarmed, but
hastened to mount to the same level on my side, and offer some grapes.

After a long stare on the part of both of us, I timidly broke the
silence by asking, "What is your name?"

"Rebecca," was the reply.

"Why," I said, "I was pitying you all this time, thinking you were
called Tobacco."

"Oh, no!" she cried, "it is not so bad as that. You have a funny name,
though. I have often wondered how you came to have such a name. Perhaps
you were born on Easter-Monday, or were very fond of eggs."

"What can you mean?" I replied. "I don't see any thing funny about my
name: I am told it is pretty."

"Well, I should not call it pretty exactly," she giggled: "it always
makes me feel hungry."

"Hungry?" I was trying to be friendly; but I did feel slightly offended
at this. At last, just as tears of vexation were rising to my eyes, I
thought of asking, "What do you think my name is?"

"Why, Egg, of course."

"Oh the idea of such a thing!" We both laughed till we nearly fell off
our perches. As soon as I was sober enough, I made haste to explain that
my name was Agnes, but that my brothers and sisters called me "Ag." It
must have been "Ag" that she heard, and thought it was Egg.

                                                        AGNES.

[Illustration: ANCIENT ARMOR.]

[Illustration]




THE APPLE TREE.


          Words by CLARA D. BATES.              Music by T. CRAMPTON.

[Illustration: Music]

          1. Up in the apple tree,
          See the rosy cheeks:
          See the balls that look like gold:
          See the crimson streaks.
          In the lovely autumn day,
          Bright as in the bloom of May,
          Filled with fruit and fair to see,
          Is the apple tree.

          2. Under the apple tree,
          See the rosy cheeks:
          Little Jinx the baby boy;
          What is it he seeks?
          Ah! his tiny teeth are white,
          And are eager for a bite,--
          Such a tempting store to see,
          Is the apple tree.

          3. Under the apple tree,
          Other rosy cheeks:
          Edith, Mabel, Golden-Locks:
          Full of merry freaks,
          Here they run and there they run,
          Shouting merrily if one
          Fallen in the group they see,
          From the apple tree.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Notes:

The July edition of the Nursery had a table of contents for the next six
issues of the year. This table was divided to cover each specific issue.
A title page copied from this same July edition was also used for this
number and the issue number added after the Volume number.

Page 150, single quotation mark changed to double (them a tune,")

Page 159, double quotation mark added to text (fond of eggs.")





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Nursery, November 1877, Vol. XXII. 
No. 5, by Various

